Update Scalar DB backup and restoration guide (#371)
scalar-labs/scalardb: docs/backup-restore.md

That means that you need to create a consistent snapshot by dumping all tables in a single transaction.
For example, you can use `mysqldump` command with `--single-transaction` option in MySQL and `pg_dump` command in PostgreSQL to achieve that.
Or when you use Amazon RDS (Relational Database Service) or Azure Database for MySQL/PostgreSQL, you can restore to any point within the backup retention period with the automated backup feature, which satisfies the requirement.

### For Non-transactional Databases

#### Database-specific ways to create a transactionally-consistent backup   

**Cassandra**

Cassandra has a built-in replication mechanism, so you do not always have to create a transactionally-consistent backup.

For example, if replication is properly set to 3 and only the data of one of the nodes in a cluster is lost, you do not need a transactionally-consistent backup because the node can be recovered with a normal (transactionally-inconsistent) snapshot and the repair mechanism.
However, if the quorum of nodes of a cluster loses their data, we need a transactionally-consistent backup to restore the cluster to a certain transactionally-consistent point.

> If you want to create a transactionally-consistent cluster-wide backup, please follow [the basic strategy](#basic-strategy-to-create-a-transactionally-consistent-backup) section, or 

Reviewer: I think it's too user-unfriendly to just say `follow`.

```suggestion
If you want to create a transactionally-consistent cluster-wide backup, pause the application and take the snapshots of nodes as described in [the basic strategy](#basic-strategy-to-create-a-transactionally-consistent-backup), or 
```

Reviewer 2: Thank you for your review comments.
Document updated based on review comments.

stop the Cassandra cluster and take the copies of all the nodes of the cluster, and start the cluster. 

To avoid mistakes when doing backup operations, it is recommended to use [Cassy](https://github.com/scalar-labs/cassy).
Cassy is also integrated with `scalar-admin` so it can issue a pause request to the application of a Cassandra cluster.
Please see [the doc](https://github.com/scalar-labs/cassy/blob/master/docs/getting-started.md#take-cluster-wide-consistent-backups) for more details.

**Cosmos DB**

You must create a Cosmos DB account with a Continuous backup policy to create point-in-time restore (PITR).

> Please follow [the basic strategy](#basic-strategy-to-create-a-transactionally-consistent-backup) section to create a backup.

Reviewer: I think it's too user-unfriendly to just say `follow`.
Can you explain a bit more about what should uses do specifically?
The basic strategy is just a strategy so not steps you can simply follow.

Reviewer 2: Thank you for your review comments.
Document updated based on review comments.

**DynamoDB**

> You must create tables with point-in-time recovery (PITR) and auto-scaling in DynamoDB. Point-in-time recovery creates continuous backup and auto-scaling provides better performance. Scalar DB Schema Loader enables PITR and auto-scaling by default.

Reviewer 2: Thank you for your review comments.
Document updated based on review comments.

> Please follow [the basic strategy](#basic-strategy-to-create-a-transactionally-consistent-backup) section to create a backup.

Reviewer 2: Thank you for your review comments.
Document updated based on review comments.

> #### Basic strategy to create a transactionally-consistent backup

Reviewer 2: Thank you for your review comments.
Document updated based on review comments.

### JDBC databases

You can restore the backup with your favorite way for JDBC databases.
You can use `mysql` command in MySQL and `psql` command in PostgreSQL to achieve that.
If you use Amazon RDS (Relational Database Service) or Azure Database for MySQL/PostgreSQL,
you can restore to any point within the backup retention period with the automated backup feature.

### Cassandra

To restore the backup, you should stop the Cassandra and clean the `data`, `commitlogs`, and `hints` directories then restores the backup copies of all the nodes of the cluster, and start the cluster.

To avoid mistakes when doing restore operations, it is recommended to use [Cassy](https://github.com/scalar-labs/cassy).
You can restore to any point using `CLUSTER-ID` and `SNAPSHOT-ID`.
Please see [the doc](https://github.com/scalar-labs/cassy/blob/master/docs/getting-started.md#take-cluster-wide-consistent-backups) for more details.

### Cosmos DB

To restore a backup, please follow the [azure official guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/restore-account-continuous-backup#restore-account-portal) and change the default consistency to `STRONG` after restoring the backup.

> It is highly recommended to use the midtime of the pause as a restore point as we explained earlier.

Reviewer: midtime of the pause?

### DynamoDB

You can restore the table to a point in time using the DynamoDB console or the AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI). The point-in-time recovery process restores to a new table.

> By default, the table can only be restored one by one.

Reviewer: If it is `By default`, then there is an option to do them at once?
If no, then it's very misleading.

Reviewer 2: Thank you for your review comments.
Document updated based on review comments.

> You can restore tables one by one from the [Amazon DynamoDB console](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/PointInTimeRecovery.Tutorial.html) using the following steps and use the midtime of the pause as a restore point

Reviewer: `restore one by one` is repeted.

Reviewer 2: Thank you for your review comments.
Document updated based on review comments.

> You can restore tables one by one from the [Amazon DynamoDB console](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/PointInTimeRecovery.Tutorial.html) using the following steps and use the midtime of the pause as a restore point

Reviewer: This sentence is not very easy to understand.
It is basically `You can restore ... and use the midtime ...`
use the midtime is in the process of restoring, right?
If so, it sounds pretty weird. 

`use the midtime of the pause as a restore point` should be explained in the steps.

 
* Restore with PITR of table A to another table B
* Take a backup of the restored table B (assume the backup is named backup B)
* Remove table A
* Create a table named A with backup B

> Note that you need to follow the above steps because the application requires tables with the same name as before. In DynamoDB, table restoration is possible only with an alias, so you can restore the table with alias and delete the actual table and rename the restored table (alias) with an actual name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that you need to follow the above steps because it assumes the application requires tables with the same names as before. In DynamoDB, a table can only be restored with an alias, so you can restore the table with an alias and delete the original table and rename the alias to the original name.
```

Reviewer 2: Thank you for your review comments.
Document updated based on review comments.

If you want to restore multiple tables with a single command, you can create a script to restore multiple tables using the AWS CLI commands.

> It is highly recommended to enable point-in-time recovery (PITR) for continuous backup creation and auto-scaling for better performance. Auto-scaling dynamically adjusts provisioned throughput capacity on your behalf in response to actual traffic patterns.

Reviewer: Sorry, I don't get it at all.
Why it's starting to say highly recommend to enable PITR? 
The above steps are already based on PITR.

Also, separate the explanation of auto-scaling.
Explain why it is needed. (for better performance is not the reason for this. It is a general benefit for auto-scaling.)
Is it because all the options are cleared for restored tables?
Then, if a user enables some other configurations for tables, they have to be restored as well.

Reviewer: ??

DynamoDB will not enable PITR and auto-scaling by default after restoring.

> You can enable continuous backup and auto-scaling using the schema loader or Amazon DynamoDB console. Configuring the continuous backup and auto-scaling is easier if you use the schema loader.

Reviewer: I think this explanation sounds very confusing.
Isn't it better to say something like this?

It is recommended to re-apply schemas with the schema loader because it configures ...

#### JDBC databases

You can take a backup with your favorite way for JDBC databases.
One requirement for backup in Scalar DB on JDBC databases is that backups for all the Scalar DB managed tables (including the coordinator table) need to be transactionally-consistent or automatically recoverable to a transactionally-consistent state.
That means that you need to create a consistent snapshot by dumping all tables in a single transaction.
For example, you can use the `mysqldump` command with `--single-transaction` option in MySQL and the `pg_dump` command in PostgreSQL to achieve that.
Or when you use Amazon RDS (Relational Database Service) or Azure Database for MySQL/PostgreSQL, you can restore to any point within the backup retention period with the automated backup feature, which satisfies the requirement.

### For Non-transactional Databases

#### Basic strategy to create a transactionally-consistent backup

One way to create a transactionally-consistent backup is to take a backup while Scalar DB cluster does not have outstanding transactions.
If an underlying database supports a point-in-time snapshot/backup mechanism, you can take a snapshot during the period.

> If an underlying database supports a point-in-time restore/recovery mechanism, you can set a restore point to a specific time (preferably the midtime) in the period since the system takes backups for each operation in such a case.

Reviewer 2: Thank you.
Updated the statement based on suggestion.

> To easily achieve transactionally-consistent backup for Scalar DB on a non-transactional database is to use the [Scalar DB server](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/tree/master/server) (which is implemented `scalar-admin` interface) or implement the [scalar-admin](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalar-admin) interface properly in your application.

Reviewer 2: Thank you.
Updated the statement based on suggestion.

> You can use the [Client-side tool](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalar-admin/tree/scalar-admin-dockerfile#client-side-tool) to pause the application without losing ongoing transactions.

Reviewer 2: Thank you.
Updated the statement based on suggestion.

> Note that when you use a point-in-time-restore/recovery mechanism, it is recommended to minimize the clock drifts between nodes (`scalar-admin` interface implemented application nodes or `Scalar DB server` nodes that requests a pause) by using clock synchronization such as NTP.

Reviewer 2: Thank you.
Updated the statement based on suggestion.

#### Database-specific ways to create a transactionally-consistent backup   

**Cassandra**

Cassandra has a built-in replication mechanism, so you do not always have to create a transactionally-consistent backup.

For example, if replication is properly set to 3 and only the data of one of the nodes in a cluster is lost, you do not need a transactionally-consistent backup because the node can be recovered with a normal (transactionally-inconsistent) snapshot and the repair mechanism.
However, if the quorum of nodes of a cluster loses their data, we need a transactionally-consistent backup to restore the cluster to a certain transactionally-consistent point.

If you want to create a transactionally-consistent cluster-wide backup, pause the application and take the snapshots of nodes as described in [the basic strategy](#basic-strategy-to-create-a-transactionally-consistent-backup), or 
stop the Cassandra cluster and take the copies of all the nodes of the cluster, and start the cluster. 

To avoid mistakes when doing backup operations, it is recommended to use [Cassy](https://github.com/scalar-labs/cassy).

> Cassy is also integrated with `scalar-admin` so it can issue a pause request to the application of a Cassandra cluster.

Reviewer 2: Thank you.
Updated the statement based on suggestion.

Please see [the doc](https://github.com/scalar-labs/cassy/blob/master/docs/getting-started.md#take-cluster-wide-consistent-backups) for more details.

**Cosmos DB**

You must create a Cosmos DB account with a Continuous backup policy enabled to create point-in-time restore (PITR). Backups are created continuously after enabling this.

> For creating a transactionally-consistent restore point, you can refer to [the basic strategy](#basic-strategy-to-create-a-transactionally-consistent-backup).

Reviewer 2: Thank you.
Updated the statement based on suggestion.

**DynamoDB**

> You can enable the point-in-time recovery (PITR) feature for tables in DynamoDB. Point-in-time recovery(PITR) creates a continuous backup for a table.

Reviewer 2: Thank you.
Updated the statement based on suggestion.

> For selecting a restore point, you can refer to [the basic strategy](#basic-strategy-to-create-a-transactionally-consistent-backup).

Reviewer 2: Thank you.
Updated the statement based on suggestion.

> You can enable auto-scaling if you want. Auto-scaling helps to maintain throughput capacity based on workload. It helps in improving efficiency and reducing costs.

Reviewer 2: Thank you for the suggestion.
I have updated the statement in a similar way as suggested.

Scalar DB Schema Loader enables PITR and auto-scaling by default.

## Restore Backup

### JDBC databases

You can restore the backup with your favorite way for JDBC databases.

> You can use `mysql` command in MySQL and `psql` command in PostgreSQL to achieve that.

Reviewer: What commands? mysql/psql what? no options?

Reviewer 2: Thank you for the feedback.
I have added a reference to official documentation instead of specifying commands directly.

### Cassandra

To restore the backup, you should stop the Cassandra and clean the `data`, `commitlogs`, and `hints` directories then restore the backup copies of all the nodes of the cluster, and start the cluster.

To avoid mistakes when doing restore operations, it is recommended to use [Cassy](https://github.com/scalar-labs/cassy).
You can restore to any point using `CLUSTER-ID` and `SNAPSHOT-ID`.
Please see [the doc](https://github.com/scalar-labs/cassy/blob/master/docs/getting-started.md#take-cluster-wide-consistent-backups) for more details.

### Cosmos DB

To restore a backup, please follow the [azure official guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/restore-account-continuous-backup#restore-account-portal) and change the default consistency to `STRONG` after restoring the backup.
It is recommended to use the midtime of paused duration as a restore point as we explained earlier.

### DynamoDB

You can restore the table to a point in time using the DynamoDB console or the AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI). The point-in-time recovery process restores to a new table.

> The tables can only be restored one by one.

Reviewer: `The tables`, What `tables`?

You mean this? or specifying some particular tables?
```suggestion
Tables can only be restored one by one.
```

Reviewer 2: Updated the sentence.

You can restore tables from the [Amazon DynamoDB console](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/PointInTimeRecovery.Tutorial.html) using the following steps.

* Select the midtime of paused duration as the restore point.
* Restore with PITR of table A to another table B
* Take a backup of the restored table B (assume the backup is named backup B)
* Remove table A
* Create a table named A with backup B

Note that you need to follow the above steps because it assumes the application requires tables with the same names as before. In DynamoDB, a table can only be restored with an alias, so you can restore the table with an alias and delete the original table and rename the alias to the original name.

If you want to restore multiple tables with a single command, you can create a script to restore multiple tables using the AWS CLI commands.

> DynamoDB will not enable features like PITR and auto-scaling by default after restoring. It is recommended to enable point-in-time recovery (PITR) for continuous backup creation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DynamoDB will not enable features like PITR and auto-scaling by default after restoring; thus, please enable point-in-time recovery (PITR) for continuous backup creation.
```

Reviewer 2: Thank you for the suggestion.
Updated document based on suggestion.

> Auto-scaling dynamically adjusts provisioned throughput capacity on your behalf in response to actual traffic patterns. You can enable this feature if you need it.

Reviewer: other configurations are all reset as well?
Then we should say in a different way

Reviewer 2: From [AWS documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/CreateBackup.html#CreateBackup_HowItWorks-restore) and [blog](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/aws/new-amazon-dynamodb-continuous-backups-and-point-in-time-recovery-pitr/) post, configurations like Auto scaling policies, AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) policies, Amazon CloudWatch metrics and alarms, Tags, Stream settings, Time to Live (TTL) settings, Point-in-time recovery settings must be set manually after restoring the tables.
I have updated in different way

> If you want to restore multiple tables with a single command, you can create a script to restore multiple tables using the AWS CLI commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Configurations like Stream settings, Time To Live settings, PITR settings, tags, AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) policies,  Amazon CloudWatch metrics and alarms, and auto scaling policies are not copied to the restored table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that some of the configurations such as PITR and auto scaling policies are reset to the default values for restored tables, please manually configure required settings. See [the doc](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/CreateBackup.html#CreateBackup_HowItWorks-restore) for more detail.```

> You must update these configurations as required after restoring the table; thus, please enable point-in-time recovery (PITR) for continuous backup creation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> You can re-apply schemas with the schema loader because it enables features like  PITR and auto-scaling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you used the schema loader and didn't change any other configurations, executing the schema loader with the same schema file is one of the ways to restore the original configuration. It only sets missing configurations if a specified table exists.
```

> _Don't worry the schema loader only sets the missing configurations and doesn't recreate the schemas if the tables exist._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

This document sets out some guidelines for backing up and restoring the databases that Scalar DB supports.

## Create Backup

### For Transactional Databases

#### JDBC databases

You can take a backup with your favorite way for JDBC databases.
One requirement for backup in Scalar DB on JDBC databases is that backups for all the Scalar DB managed tables (including the coordinator table) need to be transactionally-consistent or automatically recoverable to a transactionally-consistent state.
That means that you need to create a consistent snapshot by dumping all tables in a single transaction.
For example, you can use `mysqldump` command with `--single-transaction` option in MySQL and `pg_dump` command in PostgreSQL to achieve that.
Or when you use Amazon RDS (Relational Database Service) or Azure Database for MySQL/PostgreSQL, you can restore to any point within the backup retention period with the automated backup feature, which satisfies the requirement.

### For Non-transactional Databases

#### General way to create a transactionally-consistent backup

> The best way to take a transactionally-consistent backup for Scalar DB on a non-transactional database is to use the [Scalar DB server](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/tree/master/server) or implement the [scalar-admin](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalar-admin) interface properly in your application, you can easily pause the application without losing ongoing transactions.

Reviewer: This block and the next block should be placed in a reversed order since this explains the specific way, on the other hand, the next explains the basic strategy.

Author: @feeblefakie san,
I think it has to be first.
This section explains general details for creating the transactionally-consistent backup. The next section explains the database-specific procedures for creating backups. I think the user needs to know general procedures to create a Scalar DB backup before dealing with a database-specific.

I think it's better because this section is used in the database-specific procedure. Could you please confirm my understanding?

Author: Document revised based on review comments

> The best way to take a transactionally-consistent backup for Scalar DB on a non-transactional database is to use the [Scalar DB server](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/tree/master/server) or implement the [scalar-admin](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalar-admin) interface properly in your application, you can easily pause the application without losing ongoing transactions.

Reviewer: The best?  the easiest?

Author: I think it is the best and easiest way.
I think the best way should be easy.

Can we continue with `best`?

Author: Document updated with `easiest`
`To easily achieve transactionally-consistent backup for Scalar DB on a non-transactional database is to use the Scalar DB server....`

If an underlying database supports a point-in-time snapshot/backup mechanism, you can take a snapshot during the period.
If an underlying database supports a point-in-time restore/recovery mechanism, you can set a restore point to a specific time (preferably the midtime) in the period since the system takes backups for each operation in such a case.

You must pause for a long enough time (e.g., 10 seconds) to create a backup and use the midtime of the pause as a restore point.

#### Database-specific ways to create a transactionally-consistent backup   

**Cassandra**

Cassandra has a built-in replication mechanism, so you do not always have to create a transactionally-consistent backup.

For example, if replication is properly set to 3 and only the data of one of the nodes in a cluster is lost, you do not need a transactionally-consistent backup because the node can be recovered with a normal (transactionally-inconsistent) snapshot and the repair mechanism. However, if the quorum of nodes of a cluster loses their data, we need a transactionally-consistent backup to restore the cluster to a certain transactionally-consistent point.

> If you want to create a transactionally-consistent cluster-wide backup, please follow the [General way to create a transactionally-consistent backup](#general-way-to-create-a-transactionally-consistent-backup) section, or 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to create a transactionally-consistent cluster-wide backup, please follow [the basic strategy](#general-way-to-create-a-transactionally-consistent-backup) section, or 
```

Author: Thank you for your suggestion.
Document updated with the above suggestion.

stop the Cassandra cluster and take the copies of all the nodes of the cluster, and start the cluster. 

> To minimize mistakes when doing backup operations, it is recommended to use [Cassy](https://github.com/scalar-labs/cassy).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To avoid mistakes when doing backup operations, it is recommended to use [Cassy](https://github.com/scalar-labs/cassy).
```

Author: Thank you for your suggestion.
Document updated with the above suggestion.

Please see [the doc](https://github.com/scalar-labs/cassy/blob/master/docs/getting-started.md#take-cluster-wide-consistent-backups) for more details.

**Cosmos DB**

You must create a Cosmos DB account with a Continuous backup policy to create point-in-time restore (PITR).
Please follow the [General way to create a transactionally-consistent backup](#general-way-to-create-a-transactionally-consistent-backup) section to create a backup.

**DynamoDB**

You must create tables with point-in-time recovery (PITR) and autoscaling in DynamoDB. Scalar DB Schema Loader enables PITR and autoscaling by default.
Please follow the [General way to create a transactionally-consistent backup](#general-way-to-create-a-transactionally-consistent-backup) section to create a backup.

## Restore Backup

### JDBC databases

You can restore the backup with your favorite way for JDBC databases.
You can use `mysql` command in MySQL and `psql` command in PostgreSQL to achieve that. 
If you use Amazon RDS (Relational Database Service) or Azure Database for MySQL/PostgreSQL, 
you can restore to any point within the backup retention period with the automated backup feature.

### Cassandra

> To minimize mistakes when doing restore operations, it is recommended to use [Cassy](https://github.com/scalar-labs/cassy).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To avoid mistakes when doing restore operations, it is recommended to use [Cassy](https://github.com/scalar-labs/cassy).
```
What is the way? The alternative (using Cassy) is only shown here.
i.e.,
You should say, 
```you can do A, but it's recommended to do B.```
But this doesn't say A here.

Author: Thank you for your suggestion.
Document updated with the above suggestion.

You can restore to any point using `CLUSTER-ID` and `SNAPSHOT-ID`.
Please see [the doc](https://github.com/scalar-labs/cassy/blob/master/docs/getting-started.md#take-cluster-wide-consistent-backups) for more details.

### Cosmos DB

> To restore a backup, you must follow the [azure official guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/restore-account-continuous-backup#restore-account-portal) and change the default consistency to `STRONG` after restoring the backup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To restore a backup, please follow the [azure official guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/restore-account-continuous-backup#restore-account-portal) and change the default consistency to `STRONG` after restoring the backup.
```

Author: Thank you for your suggestion.
Document updated with the above suggestion.

> You must use the midtime of the pause as a restore point.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is highly recommended to use the midtime of the pause as a restore point as we explained earlier.
```

Author: Thank you for your suggestion.
Document updated with the above suggestion.

### DynamoDB

> You must restore tables one by one from the Amazon DynamoDB console using the following steps and use the midtime of the pause as a restore point

Reviewer: `one by one` is the must? Clarify what is the must.

Author: Ok, I will update the details

Author: Thank you for your review comments.
Document updated with clarification.

> 

Reviewer: Explain why users need to do the following steps. It's due to the limitation of DyanmoDB, right?
Just explaining steps is too user-unfriendly.

Author: Thank you for your review comments.
Document updated based on review comments.
```
You can restore the table to a point in time using the DynamoDB console or the AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI). The point-in-time recovery process restores to a new table.
By default, the table can only be restored one by one.
```

> * Restore with PITR of table A to another table B (alias table)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Restore with PITR of table A to another table B
```

Author: Thank you for your suggestion.
Document updated with the above suggestion.

> * Take a backup of the restored table B (say, backup B)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Take a backup of the restored table B (assume the backup is named backup B)
```

Author: Thank you for your suggestion.
Document updated with the above suggestion.

* Remove table A
* Create a table named A with backup B

> You must enable continuous backup and auto-scaling using the scalardb schema loader or Amazon DynamoDB console. The scalardb schema loader doesn't remake the existing tables.

Reviewer: What is the must?
Using the schema-loader is the must? or changing the configurations is the must?
Please clarify.

Also, like I said many times, please explain why it needs to configure auto-scaling.
In this doc, we have never talked about the auto-scaling, so it is pretty weird to see it here, so you must explain.

In addition, what do you mean by`The scalardb schema loader doesn't remake the existing tables.`?
You are trying to say something like this?

configuring the continuous backup and auto-scaling is easier if you use the schema loader. Don't worry the schema loader only sets the missing configurations and doesn't recreate the schemas if the tables exist.

Author: Sorry for the inconvenience.
I will update it.

Author: Thank you for your review comments.
Document updated based on review comments.

You need to restore backups appropriately depending on how the backups are created.
For example, if you use MySQL and `mysqldump` to create a backup file, use `mysql` command to restore the file as specified [in the MySQL doc](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/mysql-backup-excerpt/8.0/en/reloading-sql-format-dumps.html). If you use PostgreSQL and `pg_dump` to create a backup file, use `psql` command to restore the file as specified in [the PostgreSQL doc](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/backup-dump.html#BACKUP-DUMP-RESTORE).
If you use Amazon RDS (Relational Database Service) or Azure Database for MySQL/PostgreSQL,
you can restore to any point within the backup retention period with the automated backup feature.

### Cassandra

You first need to stop all the nodes of a Cassandra cluster. Clean the directories (`data`, `commitlogs`, and `hints`) and place backups (snapshots) in each node. Then, start all the nodes.

To avoid mistakes, it is recommended to use [Cassy](https://github.com/scalar-labs/cassy).
Please see [the doc](https://github.com/scalar-labs/cassy/blob/master/docs/getting-started.md#take-cluster-wide-consistent-backups) for more details.

### Cosmos DB

> Please follow the [azure official guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/restore-account-continuous-backup#restore-account-portal) and change the default consistency to `STRONG` after restoring the backup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can follow the [azure official guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/restore-account-continuous-backup#restore-account-portal) and change the default consistency to `STRONG` after restoring the backup.
```

It is recommended to use the mid-time of paused duration as a restore point as we explained earlier.

### DynamoDB

You can basically follow [the official doc](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/PointInTimeRecovery.Tutorial.html). However, a table can only be restored with an alias, so you need to restore a table with an alias and delete the original table and rename the alias to the original name to restore the same named tables.

Specifically, please follow the steps below.

* Select the mid-time of paused duration as the restore point.
* Restore with PITR of table A to another table B
* Take a backup of the restored table B (assume the backup is named backup B)
* Remove table A

> * Create a table named A with backup B

Reviewer: @brfrn169 Thank you! I'll update the doc as suggested.

Not that tables can only be restored one by one so you need to do the above steps for each table.

Note also that some of the configurations such as PITR and auto scaling policies are reset to the default values for restored tables, so please manually configure required settings. See [the doc](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/CreateBackup.html#CreateBackup_HowItWorks-restore) for more detail.

> If you used the schema loader and didn't change any other configurations, executing the schema loader with the same schema file is one of the ways to restore the original configuration. It only sets missing configurations if a specified table exists.

Reviewer: @brfrn169 Thank you! 

@scalar-boney Please check. If it throws an exception, I will update the doc.

> If you used the schema loader and didn't change any other configurations, executing the schema loader with the same schema file is one of the ways to restore the original configuration. It only sets missing configurations if a specified table exists.

Reviewer 2: @feeblefakie san, @scalar-boney 
I have checked with schema loader as per the comment, my findings are added below
When re applying schema using scalar db schema loader(ex .`scalardb-schema-loader-3.4.0.jar`), if a table already exists a warning is shown that table already exists(ex .`2021-12-21 18:24:36,399 [WARN  scalar-schema.dynamo] qa.question already exists`).
But in case of a restored table, features like PITR and auto-scaling are not enabled back when re applying schema with schema loader(ex .`scalardb-schema-loader-3.4.0.jar`).
With earlier versions of schema loader( ex. `scalar-schema-standalone-3.2.2.jar`), when trying to re apply schema, features like PITR and auto-scaling are enabled for restored table.
In both schema loader(ex .`scalardb-schema-loader-3.4.0.jar`) and standalone tool( ex. `scalar-schema-standalone-3.2.2.jar`), when re applying schema if tables already exist, only warnings are shown that the table exists, no error has occurred.
We may need to update and change regarding PITR being enabled on re applying schema to a restored table using schema loader since newer schema loader versions are not enabling that if a table already exists.

**Cosmos DB**

You must create a Cosmos DB account with a Continuous backup policy to create point-in-time restore (PITR).
Please follow [the basic strategy](#general-way-to-create-a-transactionally-consistent-backup) section to create a backup.

**DynamoDB**

You must create tables with point-in-time recovery (PITR) and auto-scaling in DynamoDB. Scalar DB Schema Loader enables PITR and auto-scaling by default.
Please follow [the basic strategy](#general-way-to-create-a-transactionally-consistent-backup) section to create a backup.

#### Basic strategy to create a transactionally-consistent backup

One way to create a transactionally-consistent backup is to take a backup while Scalar DB cluster does not have outstanding transactions. 
If an underlying database supports a point-in-time snapshot/backup mechanism, you can take a snapshot during the period.
If an underlying database supports a point-in-time restore/recovery mechanism, you can set a restore point to a specific time (preferably the midtime) in the period since the system takes backups for each operation in such a case.

> To easily achieve transactionally-consistent backup for Scalar DB on a non-transactional database is to use the [Scalar DB server](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/tree/master/server) or implement the [scalar-admin](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalar-admin) interface properly in your application,

Reviewer 3: i think we can describe more on how we make use of scalar-admin to pause the scalar DB servers on goining transactions here.

Author: Thank you for your review comments.
Document updated based on review comments.

### JDBC databases

You can restore the backup with your favorite way for JDBC databases.
You can use `mysql` command in MySQL and `psql` command in PostgreSQL to achieve that.
If you use Amazon RDS (Relational Database Service) or Azure Database for MySQL/PostgreSQL,
you can restore to any point within the backup retention period with the automated backup feature.

### Cassandra

To restore the backup, you should stop the Cassandra and clean the `data`, `commitlogs`, and `hints` directories then restores the backup copies of all the nodes of the cluster, and start the cluster.

To avoid mistakes when doing restore operations, it is recommended to use [Cassy](https://github.com/scalar-labs/cassy).
You can restore to any point using `CLUSTER-ID` and `SNAPSHOT-ID`.
Please see [the doc](https://github.com/scalar-labs/cassy/blob/master/docs/getting-started.md#take-cluster-wide-consistent-backups) for more details.

### Cosmos DB

To restore a backup, please follow the [azure official guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/restore-account-continuous-backup#restore-account-portal) and change the default consistency to `STRONG` after restoring the backup.

> It is highly recommended to use the midtime of the pause as a restore point as we explained earlier.

Reviewer 3: i think here we can be little more clear about the restore time selection.

Author: Thank you for your review comments.
Document updated based on review comments.

Since Scalar DB provides transaction capability on top of non-transactional (possibly transactional) databases non-invasively, you need to take special care of backing up and restoring the databases in a transactionally-consistent way.
This document sets out some guidelines for backing up and restoring the databases that Scalar DB supports.

> ## Scalar DB server

Reviewer: Why the first section of the backup and restore guide is `Scalar DB Server`. It's pretty weird.
Please think about the structure before writing sentences.

Since Scalar DB server implements [scalar-admin](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalar-admin) interface, you can easily pause the server to stop accepting incoming requests and drain in-flight requests.

> You can use paused duration and choose one of the following ways depending on the underlining database to make your databases transactionally-consistent even after restored.

Reviewer: This explanation should come to the next section?

Author: Sorry for the inconvenience.
Document updated with a new structure.

* Take backups of your databases during the paused duration.
* Restore to a point in the paused duration with point-in-time-restore (PITR) feature.

## How to create transactionally-consistent backup

> The easiest way to take a transactionally-consistent backup for Scalar DB on a non-transactional database is to use the [Scalar DB server](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/tree/master/server) or implement the [scalar-admin](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalar-admin) interface properly in your application, you can easily pause the application without losing ongoing transactions.

Reviewer: Mostly saying the same thing as above?

The above two ways should come here?

Author: Sorry for the inconvenience.
Document updated with a new structure.

> You must pause for 10 seconds to create a backup and use the midtime of the pause as a restore point.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must pause for a long enough time (e.g., 10 seconds) to create a backup and use the midtime of the pause as a restore point.
```
BTW, this is an explanation for the second way. No need to explain for the first way?

Author: Sorry for the inconvenience.
Document updated with the above suggestion.

## Scalar DB Supported Databases

### Cassandra

Since Cassandra has a built-in replication mechanism, we don't always need a transactionally-consistent backup to recover a Cassandra cluster.

For example, if replication is properly set to 3 and only the data of one of the nodes in a cluster is lost, we don't need a transactionally-consistent backup because the node can be recovered with a normal (transactionally-inconsistent) snapshot and the repair mechanism.

> However, if the quorum of nodes of a cluster loses their data, we need a transactionally-consistent backup to restore the cluster to a certain transactionally-consistent point.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, if the quorum of nodes of a cluster loses their data, we need a transactionally-consistent backup to restore the cluster to a certain transactionally-consistent point. Please follow [this](#how-to-create-transactionally-consistent-backup) for how to create a transactionally-consistent backup.
```

Author: Sorry for the inconvenience.
Document updated with the above suggestion.

> Follow [How to create transactionally-consistent backup](#how-to-create-transactionally-consistent-backup) to create a transactionally-consistent backup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
It's too sudden to say `Follow ...`.

Author: Sorry for the inconvenience.
Document updated with a new structure.

Another way to take a transactionally-consistent backup for Scalar DB on Cassandra is to stop a cluster, take the snapshots of all the nodes of the cluster, and start the cluster. 

To minimize mistakes when doing backup and restore operations, it is recommended to use [Cassy](https://github.com/scalar-labs/cassy).
Cassy is also integrated with `scalar-admin` so it can issue a pause request to the application of a Cassandra cluster.
Please see [the doc](https://github.com/scalar-labs/cassy/blob/master/docs/getting-started.md#take-cluster-wide-consistent-backups) for more details.

### Cosmos DB

> You should create Cosmos DB account using `Continuous` backup policy to create continuous backups.

Reviewer: Continuous backup is a must-have or nice-to-have?
It says `should` so it's nice to have?
Then, should it explain another way?

Author: Sorry for the inconvenience.
Document updated with the above suggestion.

> Follow [How to create transactionally-consistent backup](#how-to-create-transactionally-consistent-backup) to create a transactionally-consistent backup.

Reviewer: It's too sudden and not really connected to the previous sentence.
Please reorganize the structure.

Author: Sorry for the inconvenience.
Document updated with new structure and sentences.

You can restore the backup based on the [azure official guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/restore-account-continuous-backup#restore-account-portal) and you must change the default consistency to `STRONG` after restoring the data.

### DynamoDB

> You should create the schema using the scalardb schema loader, which enables Point-In-Time-Recovery (PITR) for each table in DynamoDB. It will create continuous backups.

Reviewer: PITR is a must? It's not clear.
I don't think we should talk about the schema loader here. It's very confusing.

Author: Sorry for the inconvenience.
Document updated with the above suggestion.

> Follow [How to create transactionally-consistent backup](#how-to-create-transactionally-consistent-backup) to create a transactionally-consistent backup.

Reviewer: Ditto.

Author: Sorry for the inconvenience.
Document updated with new structure and sentences.

For example, if replication is properly set to 3 and only the data of one of the nodes in a cluster is lost, we don't need a transactionally-consistent backup because the node can be recovered with a normal (transactionally-inconsistent) snapshot and the repair mechanism.
However, if the quorum of nodes of a cluster loses their data, we need a transactionally-consistent backup to restore the cluster to a certain transactionally-consistent point.

> The easiest way to take a transactionally-consistent backup for Scalar DB on Cassandra is to stop a cluster, take the snapshots of all the nodes of the cluster, and start the cluster. If you implement [scalar-admin](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalar-admin) interface properly in your application, you can easily pause the application without losing ongoing transactions.

Reviewer 4: Ditto.

Author: Thank you for your review comments.
Document updated with ScalarDB server details 01ae20a

For example, you can use `mysqldump` command with `--single-transaction` option in MySQL and `pg_dump` command in PostgreSQL to achieve that.
Or when you use Amazon RDS (Relational Database Service) or Azure Database for MySQL/PostgreSQL, you can restore to any point within the backup retention period with the automated backup feature, which satisfies the requirement.

## Cosmos DB

> You can create Cosmos DB account using `Continuous` backup policy to create continuous backups.

Reviewer: You can but you don't need to?
If users need to enable `continuous backup`,  we should say so. 
If users don't need to do it, please explain what is alternative.
It sounds very blur.

Author: > You can but you don't need to?

Sorry, It is mandatory for continuous backup creation.

> If users need to enable continuous backup, we should say so.

Document updated with `You should create Cosmos DB account using Continuous backup policy to create continuous backups.`

> If users don't need to do it, please explain what is alternative.

The alternative method is not sufficient for transactionally consistent backup

> The easiest way to take a transactionally-consistent backup for Scalar DB on Cosmos DB is to implement [scalar-admin](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalar-admin) interface properly in your application, you can easily pause the application without losing ongoing transactions.

Reviewer 4: Also, we have Scalar DB sever that implements scalar-admin interface. We should mention that as well.

Author: Thank you for your review comments.
Document updated with ScalarDB server details 01ae20a

> The easiest way to take a transactionally-consistent backup for Scalar DB on Cosmos DB is to implement [scalar-admin](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalar-admin) interface properly in your application, you can easily pause the application without losing ongoing transactions.

Reviewer: Let's not create copy-paste redundant descriptions. 
If this needs to be explained several times, let's create a section for this and make other sections refer to this as necessary.

Author: Sorry for the convenience.

Document updated with a common section 01ae20a

You can use the middle value of the pause time as a restore point.

You can restore the backup based on the [azure official guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/restore-account-continuous-backup#restore-account-portal) and you must change the default consistency to `STRONG` after restoring the data.

## DynamoDB

> ScalarDB schema loader enables Point-in-time recovery (PITR) for each table in a DynamoDB while creating the schema. It will help you to create continuous backups.

Reviewer: Ditto. It only helps you but it's not necessary?

Author: > Ditto. It only helps you but it's not necessary?

Sorry for the inconvenience.

Document updated like `You should create the schema using the scalardb schema loader, which enables Point-In-Time-Recovery (PITR) for each table in DynamoDB. It will create continuous backups.`

> The easiest way to take a transactionally-consistent backup for Scalar DB on DynamoDB is to implement the [scalar-admin](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalar-admin) interface properly in your application, you can easily pause the application without losing ongoing transactions.

Reviewer 4: Ditto.

Author: Thank you for your review comments.
Document updated with ScalarDB server details 01ae20a

> The easiest way to take a transactionally-consistent backup for Scalar DB on DynamoDB is to implement the [scalar-admin](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalar-admin) interface properly in your application, you can easily pause the application without losing ongoing transactions.

Reviewer: Ditto.

Author: Sorry for the convenience.

Document updated with a common section 01ae20a

> You can use the middle value of the pause time as a restore point.

Reviewer: Suddenly `the middle value` shows up, but I think users wouldn't understand it.

Author: Sorry for the inconvenience.
Document updated  01ae20a

> You can restore the tables one by one using the following steps from the Amazon DynamoDB console,

Reviewer: the tables -> which tables? Maybe the English issue.

Author: Sorry for the inconvenience.
Document updated like `You can restore tables one by one from the Amazon DynamoDB console using the following steps,`

    A. Restore the PITR (Point-in-time recovery) backup of tables except `scalardb.metadata` on the basis of [AWS official guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/PointInTimeRecovery.Tutorial.html#restoretabletopointintime_console).
        

>     B. Create the backup of previously restored tables (A) using the [AWS official guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/Backup.Tutorial.html#backup_console).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    B. Create the backup of previously restored tables (A) on the basis of [AWS official guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/Backup.Tutorial.html#backup_console).
```
I don't think `using a guide`  sounds good.

Reviewer: What does `(A)` specify? The step `A`? (then it's pretty weird)

Author: Sorry for the inconvenience.
Document updated with modified steps
```
* Restore with PITR of table A to another table B (alias table)
* Take a backup of the restored table B (say, backup B)
* Remove table A
* Create a table named A with backup B
```

>     C. Delete all tables except `scalardb.metadata` table and previously restored tables (B).

Reviewer: Ditto for `(B)`.

>     D. Restore the previously created backup (B) using the actual table name (previously deleted tables (C)) on the basis of [AWS official guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/Restore.Tutorial.html#restoretable_console).

Reviewer: Ditto for `(C)`.

Author: Sorry for the inconvenience.
Document updated with modified steps
```
* Restore with PITR of table A to another table B (alias table)
* Take a backup of the restored table B (say, backup B)
* Remove table A
* Create a table named A with backup B
```

> You must enable continuous backup and auto-scaling using the scalardb schema loader or Amazon DynamoDB console. The schema tool doesn't remake the existing tables.

Reviewer: Several comments.
* It's too late to say `you must` here. If it is a must, we should say in the first sentence.
* why auto-scaling is also a must? (I don't really know)
* schema loader or schema tool. Not consistent
* the part `You must ... using the` sounds a bit weird to me as an English. Maybe `using` -> `with`?

Author: >  It's too late to say you must here. If it is a must, we should say in the first sentence.

I think it's the right place. After the restore, continuous backup and auto-scaling will not be enabled automatically, so we need to execute the schema tool for that, otherwise, we need to enable it manually.

> why auto-scaling is also a must? (I don't really know)

I think yes, otherwise we will face performance issues.

> schema loader or schema tool. Not consistent

Sorry for the inconvenience.
Document updated with `schema loader `

> the part You must ... using the sounds a bit weird to me as an English. Maybe using -> with?

Sorry for the inconvenience.
Document updated with `using -> with` 01ae20a

**Cosmos DB**

You must create a Cosmos DB account with a Continuous backup policy to create point-in-time restore (PITR). Backups are created continuously after enabling this.

**DynamoDB**

> You must create tables with point-in-time recovery (PITR) in DynamoDB. Point-in-time recovery creates a continuous backup for a table.

Reviewer: What do you mean `create tables with PITR`?
PITR is something for creating tables?

### Cosmos DB

To restore a backup, please follow the [azure official guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/restore-account-continuous-backup#restore-account-portal) and change the default consistency to `STRONG` after restoring the backup.

> It is highly recommended to use the midtime of the pause as a restore point as we explained earlier.

Reviewer: midtime is fine.
I meant, what do you mean by `the midtime of the pause`?
(no midtime in pause since pause is an action)
You meant `the midtime of the paused duration`?

Reviewer 2: >You meant the midtime of the paused duration?

Yes, I will updated it.

### DynamoDB

You can restore the table to a point in time using the DynamoDB console or the AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI). The point-in-time recovery process restores to a new table.
The tables can only be restored one by one.

You can restore tables from the [Amazon DynamoDB console](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/PointInTimeRecovery.Tutorial.html) using the following steps.

> * Select the mean or average of pause and unpause time as a restore point.

Reviewer: worse.

Reviewer 2: I will update change this.
Thank you
